# The Game Design Document: an example

NOTA BENE: this outline is a list of suggested topics. Please exclude from your document the items that do not apply to your game (e.g.: the does not have a story with subplots, etc.)!

NOTA BENE 2: the final version of the GDD should be complete (i.e. it describes the whole game) and it must include a section that summarizes which are the parts of the game that have been included in the prototype. Otherwise, we will expect that everything described in the GDD have been developed...

Add a cover page including at least:
- Game title
- Team name + team members
- Academic year
- Team/game logo/concept art

## 1. Design History
This section tracks the changes made to the document.

## 2. Vision Statement
Colorful match-3 puzzle game, with quick, 1v1, interactive matches in real time. Aimed to be very explosive and cheerful, in a cartoonish way. The campaign and multiplayer modes both reward the player with items and coins to buy them, in order to win more games and complete the item album. The game aims to convey a feeling of great accomplishment in completing sections of the campaign and pages of the album, awarding special prizes when the player can achieve these results.

### 2.1. Game Logline
Describe the game in one sentence.

### 2.2. Gameplay Synopsis

>Uniqueness

The game is a match-3 that delivers a 1v1, competitive experience, both in PvP and in PvE. In addition to converting the classic match-3 gameplay experience into a multiplayer one, it features consumables the player can collect and use to win matches (or campaign levels), as bonuses for themselves or maluses for the enemy.

>Functioning & Core Mechanics

Each player has a set number of moves:
	-During the campaign, it depends on the level
	-In PvP, 30 moves
Each move consists in swapping 2 objects or using a consumable item from the inventory.

Each player plays on a board of 6x7 tiles, all filled with objects to match.

The match has a set timer of 3 minutes, after which, if the match hasn't ended already, the player with the highest current score will result as winner.

Score is assigned according to the classic rules of match-3: each 3-or-more-object group the player manages to match disappears and awards points based on the size of the group, and, if "combos" are generated by this move, they will award bonus points based on the combo length. Combos are described in further detailed in the Gameplay section.

>Setting

Ludenia was a peaceful kingdom, full of joy and inhabited by carefree, happy people. But that all changed, the day the Dreary Armada attacked. Battle rages on throughout the kingdom, and there's only one hero that can stop this catastrophe from destroying the happiness of the Ludenians and avoid the worst: the player. The kingdom of Ludenia is a fantasy, medieval kingdom, where the citizens have been morphed into sad statues.
The Dreary Armada is an army of people who just were to listen to a concert, performed by [Pun on some singer name + sadness], and armed up to deprive the whole world of the happiness they will never grasp again.

>Look and feel



## 3. Audience, Platform, and Marketing

### 3.1. Target Audience
The game targets adults (35-50) living in urban areas of western europe, regardless of gender, with a casual mindset, with any schedule. 

### 3.2. Platform
Mobile Android devices, as the market for this kind of games flourishes on mobile platforms. That is where the potential audience of the game would look for it. Match-3 gameplay is experienced at its best on a touch screen.

### 3.3. System requirements
Android 5.0+, as Android 5 constitutes 89% of the Android market right now.

### 3.4. Top performers
Candy Crush, Toon Blast, Matchington Mansion, Farm Heroes.

### 3.5. Feature comparison
Competitors do not feature PvP, while they usually include longer and more complex levels and puzzl-ish mechanics, and the slower pace that comes with them.

## 5. Gameplay

### 5.1. Overview
Description of the core gameplay.

### 5.2. Gameplay description
Detailed description of how the game functions.

### 5.3. Controls
Map out in detail the game procedures and control.

#### 5.3.1. Interfaces
Wireframe (with description) of all the interfaces you need.

#### 5.3.2. Rules
Description of the rules of the game.

#### 5.3.3. Scoring/winning conditions
Detailed description for each play mode (es. multiplayer, single player, …).

### 5.4. Modes and other features
Describe game modes (es. multiplayer, single player, …).

### 5.5. Levels
Design for each level.

### 5.6. Flowchart
Flowchart that lists every areas and screens that should be created.

## 6. Game Characters

### 6.1. Characters design
Description and attributes of every character (if any).

### 6.2. Types

#### 6.2.1. PCs

#### 6.2.2. NPCs
Any NPCs should be described in detail (properties and functionalities): monster & enemies, friends & allies, neutral, other types, guidelines, traits, behaviour, AI.

## 7. Story

### 7.1. Synopsis
Max 2 pars. To describe the story (if any).

### 7.2. Complete story
Outline of the complete story that mirrors gameplay.

### 7.3. Backstory
Any important elements not directly tied to the gameplay.

### 7.4. Narrative devices
Ways used to reveal the story.

### 7.5. Subplots
Description and ties to the main stream of the story.

## 8. The Game World
If the game requires the creation of a world, describe here in detail all its aspects: overview, key locations, travel, mapping, scale, physical objects, weather conditions, day & night, time, physics, society/culture, etc.

## 9. Media List
List of all the media that need to be created: interface assets, environments, characters, animation, music and sound effects.
